*Supplementary material for the manuscript*

Code and data are not yet made available.

# Nutrient-diagnosis-of-cranberry-in-Quebec-and-Wisconsin

Parent, L.E., Jamaly, R., Atucha, A., Parent, E., Workmaster, B.A., Ziadi, N., and Parent, S.-É.

## DRAFT

Wisconsin and Quebec are the world leading cranberry-producing regions. Cranberries are grown in naturally low-fertility sandy beds. Cranberry fertilization is guided by general soil and tissue nutrient tests in addition to yield and vegetative biomass production. However, other factors such as cultivar, location, and nutrient carryover impact cranberry nutrition and yield. The objective of this study was to customize nutrient diagnosis and fertilizer recommendation for cranberry production after acocunting for local factors and nutrient carryover effects. We collected 1768 observations from on-farm surveys and fertilizer trials in Quebec and Wisconsin to elaborate a machine learning model using minimum datasets. We tested carryover effects in a 5-year fertilizer experiment on permanent plots. Micronutrients contributed more than macronutrients to variation in tissue compositions. Random Forest model related accurately current-year berry yield to location, cultivars, climatic indices, fertilization, and tissue and soil tests as features (classification accuracy of 0.83). Comparing compositions of defective and successful tissue compositions in the Euclidean space of tissue compositions, the general across-factor diagnosis differed from the local factor-specific diagnosis. Hence, nutrient standards elaborated in one region could hardly be transposed to another and, within the same region, from one bed to another due to site-specific characteristics. Carryover effects were addressed by including information on previous yield to account for residual carbohydrate reserves, and on tissue composition to account for nutrient storage. Next-year yield and nutrient adjustment could be predicted accurately from current-year, plot-specific, tissue composition, berry yield and other features, with R2 value of 0.73 and classification accuracy of 0.85. Compositional and machine learning methods proved to be effective to customize nutrient diagnosis and predict site-specific measures for long-term nutrient management of cranberry. This study emphasize the need to acquire large experimental and observational dataset to capture the numerous factor combinations impacting cranberry yield.
